Government reply supplied by Dan on 8 October 2026
Incoming email date not supplied. This is the supplied text, not an original .eml export.

Dear Dan,

Thank you for your email and interest in this project.

Please find responses to your queries below. We look forward to receiving your submission shortly.

1. How would the proposed framework treat consumer contracting for carpentry work below $10,000? Please distinguish existing requirements from proposed changes, including relevant scope, permit and insurance requirements.

Existing requirements

The Building and Plumbing Commission’s website explains when a registered builder must be engaged to perform domestic building work: Engaging a builder | Building and Plumbing Commission.
As you know, section 29(1)(a) of the Domestic Building Contracts Act 1995 requires an appropriately registered building practitioner to enter a major domestic building contract.
Regulation 6 of the Domestic Building Contracts Regulations 2017 currently provides that a major domestic building contract is a contract where the builder will receive an amount of more than $10,000.
You will also note from the Engage Victoria website, draft regulations propose to amend regulation 6 of the Domestic Building Contracts Regulations 2017, to increase the $10,000 threshold for a major domestic building contract to $20,000: Clearer and fairer domestic building contracts | Engage Victoria.
You will also see from that webpage that the final regulations are expected to be made this month and are due to commence on 31 March 2027.

Proposed changes for carpentry trades

The draft regulatory impact statement (draft RIS) published on the separate Registration and licensing of carpenters | Engage Victoria webpage explains how the new trades registration and licensing requirements are expected to apply to carpentry trades.
In particular, we draw your attention to section ‘1.3 The new registration and licensing framework’ of the draft RIS (see page 28).
Please see also section ‘1.3.2 Changes compared to the current scheme’ and ‘Table 0.1 Accountability of different building industry participants under existing and new arrangements’ of the draft RIS (page 31) (in the context of the above comments about the proposal to raise the $10,000 threshold to $20,000).

2. Have any carpenter-specific assessment requirements been proposed, including recognition of completed apprenticeships and verified competence within the existing workforce?

Please refer to the following sections of the draft RIS published on the carpentry Engage Victoria webpage
3.3.4 Provisional registration and provisional licences (page 71)
3.3.4.1 Provisional registration and provisional licence requirements, the carpentry trade assessment and training plans (page 72)

3. Is further information available on the workforce estimate and the evidence connecting carpenter registration or licensing to reduced defects?

Please refer to Chapter 2: Problem analysis the following sections of the draft RIS published on the carpentry Engage Victoria webpage.

4. Who is the best contact for continuing the discussion about existing-building capability and staged wet-area quality checks raised during the session?

We will provide this information in due course.

Kind regards

Courtney Gleeson (She/Her)
Communications and Engagement Manager – Building
Department of Transport and Planning

From: admin@sonsiecarpentry.com <admin@sonsiecarpentry.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 7, 2026 9:44 PM
To: Building Policy (DTP) <building.policy@transport.vic.gov.au>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Thank you for attending the trades registration and licensing consultation session
